Very good.
So we are actually starting chapter 2,
now I'm gonna give you a little bit of
background about Grid here so that you get
that 30,000 foot view of what Grid looks
like, and then we're gonna start coding.
So, introducing Grid.
What is it good for?
Grid is best for a series of boxes
that are the same width, perfect.
Layouts that pan across rows and
or columns.
So, remember Flexbox is one-dimensional,
it can either do a row,
it can do a column,
Grid does both at the same time.
If you have siblings, so HTML elements
that are at the same level, and
you want things to overlap or
cover each other,
Grid is something that will do that, you
don't have to use absolute positioning.
Grid will actually allow you
to overlap Grid cells, and
grid should be your default layout method.
So the big key to understanding grid,
and for that matter, Flexbox, is this.
There is an HTML relationship
between parents and children, okay?
We're going to talk a lot about
parents and children today.
We'll start looking at code for this.
We're gonna leverage this
relationship between parents and
children with CSS selectors.
And the properties that are available to
you for working with your layout depend on
whether you're working with a parent in
the HTML or with a child in the HTML that.
That will determine what
properties are available to you.
By the way, if you are grandchildren,
great-grandchildren,
you don't get anything at all,
it's just parents and
children that are going
to have these properties.
So the important part to a successful
CSS layout, whether it's Grid or
whether it's Flexbox is this,
making sure your HTML structure
is correct before you start
applying Grid or Flexbox, okay?
Couple of interesting things about Grid,
If you're not familiar,
there are several kinds of syntax with
Grid that accomplish the same thing.
We're gonna go through all three of those.
So, one of the confusing things about
working with Grid is that you go well,
sometimes it's numbers,
sometimes it's spans, sometimes it's area,
I have no idea when to
use any of those things.
Well, a lot of times they're
just interchangeable,
so pick the syntax that you like,
we'll go through all of those.
Grid is also gonna do its best
to guess at what you want.
And it doesn't always guess correctly,
but it does a really good
job of trying to guess.
So even if you say,
I would like to have three columns, but
your children suggest that
there should be four columns,
Grid is going to try to work with that
to make the layout on your page work.
It's gonna try to guess where to put
the next box in the right location.
In your slides here, I'm gonna give you
a little reference list here of your Grid
properties, you can go
through that at your leisure.
There is a link here to CSS Tricks,
which has I think,
one of the best guides still for
looking at Grid properties.
I asked Chris Coyer about this and
he said, CSS Tricks doesn't seem to be
updated that much anymore,
is this guide still pretty good?
It is, in fact, pretty good, you won't
find a lot of information on sub-grid
there, but for grid, which is the kind of
grid you're gonna use in most of the time
and most of your work,
this is a great reference to use.
If you are one of those people
who like to use games, and
you're very sad about Flexbox Froggy or
Flexbox Defender,
you'll be happy to know that
there are Grid games for you too.
Remember that these games teach
you only properties and values,
they don't really teach you
the thinking behind how to use Grid.
The ones that I was able to find
are Grid Garden, Grid Attack, and
Grid Critters, enjoy and
have a blast, and let's start coding.